6 Responsibilites of a Data Engineer 
1. Move data between systems
Extract: Extract data from sources. This can be an api,cloud storage,databases,or csv files
Transform: transform the data. some common transformations are mapping,filtering,changing the structure of the data
Load: Load the data into the destination system. This can be a cloud storage file, data warehouse or cache database

2. Manage Data Warehouse
Data warehouse: a data warehouse is a data management system that enables and supports business intelligence activities (analytics). Data warehouse perfomr queries and analysis
that contain large amount of historical data. The data warehouse consolidates large amounts of data from multiple sources. 

 1. Warehouse data modeling: Model the data for analytical queries. Typically aggregation queries on large tables. Modleling includes partitions, handling fact and dimension tables

 2. Warehouse performance: Make sure the queries are fast and the warehouse can scale as needed.

 3. Data Quality: Ensuring data quality within the data warehouse

Common modeling techniques: Kimball modeling, Data Vault, Data Lake

Kimball modeling: data warehousing methodology. Its a dimensional modeling approach that create data warehouses to support business intelligence and analytics. 

Data Vault: a way to store and manage data in a structured and organized manner. 

Data Lake: Storage repository  that holds a alrge amount of raw and unprocessed data. 

Data Lake vs Data warehouse
Data Warehouse: Processed, transformed data for reporting and analytics
Data Lake: Raw and unprocessed data


Common warehouses: snowflake,redshift,Bigquery, Clickhouse, Postgres

3. Schedule,execute and monitor data pipelines
Data engineers not only build pipelines but they schedule them
Scheduling data pipelines to be run at a certain schedule or in response to some event 
Exdcuting data pipelines and ensuring that they can scale and have the right permissions
Monitoring data pipeline for failures, deadlocks, and long-running tasks
Managing metadata end to end time taken, failure reasons 



4. Serve data to the end-users
Now that the data is avaiblable in the data warehouse, you need to serve it to the end-user. This can be analyst, an application or external clients 

	1. Data Visualization/Dashboard tool: 
	Tools used by humans to analyze the data and create charts 
	2. Permissions for the data: granting correct permissions to applications or end-users
	3. Data endpoints: aaplications will need API access
5. Data strategy
Data engineers have to come up with a plan to collect the data 

6. Deploy ML Models in production 
After ML models are developed, Data Engineers deploy these models by optimizing them to be used in a production environement


The main objective of the data engineering teams is to enable company wide use of the data for decision making. 


